 Abstract:
 
Pathfinding algorithm addresses the problem of   finding the shortest path from source to destination and avoiding obstacles. One of the greatest challenges in the design of realistic Artificial Intelligence (AI) in computer application is agent movement. Pathfinding strategies are usually employed as the core of any AI movement system. In this work, A* search algorithm is used to find the shortest path between the source and destination on image that represents a map or a maze. Finding a   path through a maze is a basic computer   science problem that   can take many forms. The A* algorithm is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal. Different map are used to test the system performance. The system overall   performance is acceptable and able to find the shortest path between two points on the images. More than 85% images can   find   the shortest   path   between    the   selected   two points. A famous person algorithm is an informative algorithm in comparison to others that means it's going to handiest use the course which has the possibility of the usage of the shortest and the maximum green course. After finding the course we use Manhattan technique to attract the direction. The algorithm uses the formula f(n)=g(n)+h(n) g(n) = indicates the shortest course’s value from the beginning node to node n h(n)=The heuristic approximation of cost of the node. To show how the set of rules runs   we will put in force it in python. This will supply us a 2D representation of our version and how the algorithm works.

Introduction:

Pathfinding generally refers to find the shortest route between two end points. Examples of such problems include transit planning, telephone traffic routing, maze navigation and robot path planning. As the importance of industry increases, pathfinding has become a popular and frustrating problem in many industries. Applications like role-playing games and real-time strategy games often have characters sent on missions from their current location to a predetermined or player determined destination. The most common issue of pathfinding in a video game is how to avoid obstacles cleverly and seek out the most efficient path over different terrain. Early solutions to the problem of pathfinding in computer games, such as depth first search, iterative  deepening, breadth first search, Dijkstra’s algorithm, best first search, A* algorithm, and iterative deepening A*, were soon overwhelmed by the sheer 
exponential growth in the complexity of the game. More efficient solutions are required so as to be able to solve pathfinding problems on a more complex environment with limited time and resources. Because of the huge success of A* algorithm in path finding [1], many researchers are pinning their hopes on speeding up A* so as to satisfy the changing needs of the game. Considerable effort has been made to optimize this  algorithm over the past decades and dozens of revised algorithms have been introduced successfully. Examples of such optimizations include improving heuristic methods, optimizing map representations, introducing new data structures and reducing memory requirements.  The next section provides an overview of A* techniques which are widely used in current game industry.  

  Problem Statement: 
  
Assume that you are the head of the corporation team that clears the roads in a city like Bangaluru for traffic. It is the time of the year with cyclones causing trees to fall. It is your duty to clear the roads for traffic. The problem here is defined as to find the shortest route that travels through all the roads in an area clearing them. The shortest path includes all the roads but only once. Help your cleaning robot in finding such a path given a starting point and the map. Here the area map is represented as a graph. The algorithm takes the starting point and the graph as the input and produces the shortest path covering all the edges only once. Pathfinding is the plotting, by a computer application, of the shortest route between two points. The task is to build a path finding visualizer tool to visualize the A* pathfinding algorithm that finds the least cost path from a given initial node to goal node.        
    
Proposed method:

A Path finding algorithm has been proposed for grid-based graph, that finds the least cost path from a given source node to destination node. The solutions for the path finding algorithm has been analyzed to find the shortest path between two points even with obstacles. Pathfinding requires significant amount of resources especially in movement intensive application. For that reason, an efficient and inexpensive approach is needed. In this work, images from strategy games that represent a map. A* is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal. This algorithm will be used to find the shortest path between two points on the grid. 
 
     
IMPLIMENTATION: 

This is an extension to the A* in general where I had explained about the basics of A* and the skeletal algorithm which is common for all implementations. Introduction Here we’ll be learning about the implementation of the A* algorithm that we have learnt so far on pathfinding on a 2D grid. I’ll be explaining with 4 way movement i.e. the object can move 4 ways, up, down, left and right as it’s exactly same as the 8 way movement i.e. 4 way movement plus the diagonal movement. Prerequisites   
The basic knowledge of A* algorithm is required which can be found in my earlier tutorial here as I’m not going to explain all the variables F score, G score, H score etc here.  Working Let’s work on this in the order of the previous article. So first of all we need to decide what all information is needed to be kept in the node. 
▪ We need the x,y coordinates as column and row information within the nodes. ▪ We need the individual f,g and h scores to be stored in the nodes. ▪ We need a pointer that points to the parent. 
This is the basic information required to be stored in the node, of course more stuff can be added as per the requirements of the pathfinding problem. 

CONCLUSION:

By this application it can be helpful in finding out the distance among two points (Source and vacation spot) whether or not it be two towns or states or exclusive locations. A-star (A*) is a mighty algorithm in Artificial Intelligence with a wide range of usage. However, it is only as good as its heuristic function (which can be highly variable considering the nature of a problem). A* is the most popular choice for pathfinding because it’s reasonably flexible. The basic core of pathfinding algorithm is just a small piece of the puzzle in AI games. The most concern problem is how to use the algorithm to solve difficult problems. A* algorithm is the most popular algorithm in pathfinding. In this mini Project, A* search algorithm is implemented to find the shortest path between source and destination. Pathfinding is so important in strategy games and other applications. The map is converted into three main colours; each map has different correspondence to the three colours, after selecting source and destination points, the system will find the shortest path between the selected points. Other search algorithms can be used and each algorithm has different characteristics.   
